Hi everyone!

Recapping this week's readings:

    Susan Handy discusses smart growth principles like building connectivity through transit oriented development, denser development, and mixed use development. She also says that by following this smart growth walking/cycling will be promoted as viable means of transportation and discourage car usage. She then goes into the health and economic benefits of these land use strategies.
    Phillip Blythe discusses smart cards (such as the NYC OMNI cards) as a way to collect real time usage data as well as reduce the amount of time spend embarking or disembarking onto public transit. He then also discusses some fiscal and accessibility benefits as well as the challenges with the initial investment and the need to overhaul the existing ticketing infrastructure to use the smart cards.
    Heather Allen brought up a case study looking into Seoul's bus network and how it was overhauled from a collection of inefficient private companies to one unified network. Discussing the major elements of the reform, the results, and the impact and lessons learned this piece did well to highlight how intentional and thoughtful planning can reform engagement and utilization of a public service.
    Lastly, Peter Midgley's piece talked about bike sharing systems and their role in urban mobility, the environment, health, and accessibility. Peter also brought up Paris as a pioneer in integrating a bike sharing program into their urban fabric.

I believe that it's important to address the elephant in the room, all of these papers are very dated. Peter's piece is from 2009 with data through 2008. In his table he lists that the USA, as a whole, only has one bike sharing system with 10 stations and 100 bikes. Anyone who's been to NYC can probably count 100 Citi bikes per 30 minute walk and walk by 10 stations. According to Citi-Bike, there are "over 2,000 Citi Bike stations and over 30,000 bikes", a far cry from the 10 stations and 100 bikes stated in the paper in a city that didn't even have a system at the time of writing. This article from 2017 states that there are 119 bike sharing systems nationally which is astonishing as it only took 8 years for the program to be widely spread in the cities of the USA. Also, the smart cards have been in place in 22 cities per this Wikipedia page.

I suppose the point of highlighting how dated the articles are is to say that we're beginning to see the trickle of the benefits. Their age also provide examples as to how quickly these changes can take place and, optimistically, how we can start seeing an accelerating adoption of these types of positively impactful ideas. At the time of writing, Peter's piece didn't touch greatly on electric bikes which have been a hit with the bike sharing population in NYC using it almost half of the time in 2023. NYC had completed a full OMNY rollout at the end of 2020 and, theoretically, have been able to start planning their bus and rail network using the detailed ridership data.

It's amazing to see how fast things have changed since these papers were written. The rapid expansion of bike sharing, the adoption of smart cards, and the growing push for sustainable transportation are clear signs that these ideas are taking hold and making a real impact in our cities.
