Hey Everyone!

To recap this weeks readings:

Stimmel - highlights the stakeholders (us citizens) and their interests when it comes to data usage (social, regulatory, and safety) emphasizing the need for technology to be designed with the user in mind and fostering active citizen engagement and democratic participation. They also bring up a statement from Alcatel-Lucent and an example of how the UK attempted to make a change to save money by changing the streetlights.
Gebetsroither-Geringer - Overviews the System Dynamics and Agent/Individual Base Modeling and discusses their respective advantages and disadvantages. Additionally, it details MASGISmo and introduces the Urbanapi project and how it was applied to the Dead Sea Project to make regional decisions in a changing community
McEwen - This chapter opens up with an example of going through a hyper-connected user whose everyday devices and tools make decisions based on data obtained through the internet. The author also introduces the idea that APIs have become fairly standardized and on-premise (or on-object) compute has become incredibly inexpensive. Also ends with saying that the "IoT needs to be the Io-beautiful-T to assimilate into our world"
With these summaries being said, I believe that everyone here would agree that technology, when implemented correctly, could accomplish incredible feats to make our lives and the world around us a better place. In my honest opinion, the piece at the beginning of the McEwen chapter where "I" am getting ready in an intelligently connected world reminded me of the line from Stimmel's text of "...broad excited statements by smart city advocates working to build business cases..." as I felt that much of these were very funnily over the top (In all honesty, my wife and I have been laughing at the idea of the "Wi-Fi enabled umbrella" this whole week) and that some of these examples are solutions searching for problems.  

Jokes aside, the value of having this many things connected is incredibly powerful as it can fit the MASGISmo model (or a more powerful future iteration of it) and provide incredible insight into how we can anticipate needs in our urban fabric. Where I worry is in how it's crafted. From the Alcatel-Lucent vision statement, it's evident that there are parties (corporations/individuals with little regard for anything but their bottom line) creating business cases which oversimplify the cases to the only factors of their interest at the expense of the others. Going back to Stimmel's stated citizens data usage interests (social, regulatory, and safety), it's tempting to be overly optimistic/eager to disregard the importance and the implications of ignoring these factors. Even today, we are seeing the effects of a lackadaisical approach to data usage/storage care with the increasing number of data breaches (blue line in the chart below).



There's an arms race between the desire to obtain the value now and the need to have it done right. It's seemingly impossible for the need to have it done right to catch up as the rate that our capabilities improve far outpace our ability to accurately assess the impacts of the work. This is evident with how APIs are making it easier for devices to connect and how the costs for compute has miniaturized and become much cheaper. I believe that, as McEwen said, "[the] IoT needs to be the Io-beautiful-T to assimilate into our world" and for it to be beautiful, we need thoughtful, careful, and wonderous devices that reflect humanity and must combat the tendency we have to over produce, over consume, and overly waste for these devices to have a real lasting impact in our lives in a way that's compatible with our desire to improve outcomes and situations for each other.