Hey Everyone!

These readings reminded me of the book Strong Towns: A Bottom-Up Revolution to Rebuild American Prosperity by Charles Marohn and, coincidentally, a YouTube video I saw this week called Natural Handcrafted Artisanal ... Streets?! by Not Just Bikes. The Strong Towns book spends a lot of time applying a life cycle analysis to our built infrastructure (specifically roads for this memo) emphasizing how the current economic system of road construction and maintenance are ultimately unsustainable. By mirroring the principles and methods from Chapter 11 of Theis and Tomkin's book, Charles emphasizes the economic lifecycle analysis of roads to demonstrate that the current funding and incentive structures are financially insolvent.  Using the methods outlined in the Life Cycle Assessment, Charles shows that how this system require population and land use to grow at an exponential rate just to secure enough federal funding to maintain the existing infrastructure creating a vicious cycle where the costs of infrastructure upkeep outpaces the community's ability to support it. Also in the book, Charles delves into how this exponential growth incentive has environmental costs as municipalities are incentivized to sprawl outward, resulting in more resources required for essential services (sewage, water, power, roads, fire, etc), loss of land to excessive low-density development, and additional miles driven. While reading Chapter 11, I was thinking about the Strong Towns book often as I was recalling arguments that Charles made as new ideas and methods were introduced and I felt inspired to look at everything around me through this lens more often.

With some downtime this week, I saw the YouTube video by Not Just Bikes where Jason spends some time discussing Clinker Streets, specifically the ease of maintainability, their durability, aesthetic appeal, and how they contribute to safer, more livable urban environments by naturally slowing down traffic. He acknowledges that the clinker streets are more expensive upfront but have a much cheaper lifecycle cost as clinker streets, when compared to the conventional asphalt, which have a much shorter lifecycle, require invasive tear downs to maintain them or the underlying utilities, and become damaged much more frequently. Just like with Strong Towns, we are seeing a situation here Jason is applying the Life Cycle Assessment to our built environment to compare alternatives with the intention to find evidence to improve future decisions. 

Both Strong Towns and Jason's YouTube video essentially do the same thing where they look at the economic, social, and physical impacts of the built environment and systems. Personally, I'd love to see more clinker streets as I believe when a public good is made to be beautiful it fosters a pride and a desire to upkeep the beauty of the neighborhood in addition to the added safety and lower life cycle cost. 

Finally Jason says in the video, the clinker streets don't need to be jackhammered to be repaired or to access the services underneath. I would love for the jackhammering to no longer exist!