Hi Everyone!

Hope all is well, I'm going to start off with a summary of this week's readings:

Gungor et al. - This paper went into detail over the many different methods and smart grid standards that exists. While looking at the table of smart grid standards, I was reminded of this comic:
Falco - A case study done by Accenture on reducing energy usage on a Microsoft building. By using fault detection and diagnosis, smart alarm management, and energy tracking and optimization the project was able to achieve pretty substantial energy reductions. The change was able to pay for itself in under two years and cost about 10% of an year's electricity cost. It works with existing systems and can be replicated by identifying and aggregating key data, applying advanced analytics to uncover savings, and presenting insights in a clear, actionable format.
Xia - Compares the energy usage of China and the USA. In the US, buildings account for 41% of energy while in China it accounted for 28%. Part of this can be attributed to the age of the paper (2014 where the urban population was 744M and in 2023 it was 910M). Despite that, there are significant differences between US and Chinese with the US's demand being greater largely due to greater HVAC use, larger floor area per person, and higher occupant comfort standards. In the paper, it does admit that the US is better in terms of data infrastructure, benchmarking, energy ratings, access to actual data, and stronger energy efficiency policies. Although I didn't research it very much, I found that China has been addressing these items&nbsp;more over the last 10 years.

Hargreaves - The study explored how people use smart energy monitoring systems, noting that excitement fades over time unless the system remains useful or interesting. Real-time feedback, like showing energy use by appliance, kept people engaged, but hard-to-read monitors were ignored. It concluded that significant energy savings require broader support from policies, infrastructure, and community norms, not just the monitors themselves.

From my viewpoint, all of these papers help with trying to get lower utilization of energy from the viewpoint of the occupants. This is very helpful to use our current energy supply better but I believe that it's missing the forest for the trees. Although energy generation isn't today's focus, it's important to remember that Accenture's case study was only able to save a bit over 5% of the energy consumption (estimated this using 10% of initial cost paid off over &lt;2 years). Although a 5%+ reduction is nothing to scoff at, we still are seeing crazy growth in energy demand from AI and other tech. As long as we are still using Fossil fuels to produce 60% of our energy needs, that 5% reduction is only 60% effective (3%).

But at any rate, this week isn't about energy generation :).


Regarding buildings, I believe that being aware of how much is being used is important and I am impressed by Hargreaves' work to study how people actually interact with the monitoring system to see what works and what doesn't work to get people engaged and to feel empowered to make changes. Although the result is essentially "the monitoring system isn't enough", I think that it's important to be able to monitor our appliances as it'll enable, for example, policy around efficiency standards to be monitored at a national scale. Allowing for (now, I doubt this'll happen) recalls and legal punishment for companies who don't maintain a regulated standard of energy efficiency.